.TH SCREENIE 1 "March 28, 1996" "SCREENIE" "Utility Commands"
.SH NAME
screenie - terminal screen(1) session handler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B screenie 
.RB [\| \-v \|]
.RB [\| \-j
.IR jobname
.IR job \|]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
interactive mode. see INTERACTIVE MODE.
.TP
.BI \-j\  name \  job
Run the given screen
.IR job .
Give it the respective
.IR name .
.TP
.BI \-v
Display version.
.SH DESCRIPTION

Screenie is a small and lightweight \fBscreen\fR(1) frontend that is designed 
to be a session handler that simplifies the process of administrating
detached jobs by providing an interactive menu.

Please note that you can improve the quality of
.B screenie
by sending patches, comments, hints, ideas, bug- and testreports to the author.
.br
.SH EXAMPLE
.TP \w'screenie\ 'u
.B screenie
Run in interactive mode
.TP 
\fBscreenie \-j \fR"\fISystem stat\fR" "\fItop\fR"
.SH INTERACTIVE MODE
when called without arguments,
.B screenie
enter interactive mode.
You can then choose : 
.TP 
.BI [1-9]*
the number of a opened session
if detached, attach it,
if attached, attach again (see -x option of
.B screen
, especially warning about recursive attach).
.TP 
.BI [N|n]
create a new session.
.TP
you will be asked to choose :
 a .screenrc file for your new session (see MULTIPLE SCREENRC),
 a name for the session (see SESSION NAME).
 If you don't specify a .screenrc file you will be prompted for a job to be execute in the new session.
.TP 
.BI [F|f]
.B fast mode :
create new session with .screenrc and attach it directly. The session name is "_".
.TP 
.BI [0|Q|q]
quit
.B screenie
.SH MULTIPLE SCREENRC
.B screenie
will look for multiple .screenrc* files in your home directory.
It will look for file beginning by .screenrc such as '.screenrc.specialconfig'.
Files ending with '~' (backup file), '.swp' (vi swap files) will be silently ignored.
You should put default settings in your .screenrc file such as :

.EX
shell /bin/bash
# terminfo and termcap for nice 256 color terminal
# allow bold colors - necessary for some reason
attrcolor b ".I"
# tell screen how to set colors. AB = background, AF=foreground
termcapinfo xterm* 'Co#256:AB=\E[48;5;%dm:AF=\E[38;5;%dm'
termcapinfo rxvt*  'Co#256:AB=\E[48;5;%dm:AF=\E[38;5;%dm'

defutf8 on          # utf8 always by default
defbce "on"         # erase background with current bg color
autodetach on       # detach on hangup
startup_message off # don't display the copyright page
#vbell off          # no annoying audible bell, please
vbell on
bell_msg '^G'

caption splitonly
shelltitle '#|'
hardstatus alwayslastline
hardstatus string "%{= ky}%-Lw%{=r}%20>%n %t%{= ky}%+Lw %{= ky}%-=| %{= kw}%M%d %c%{-} %{=r} ${USER}@%H "
bind f eval "hardstatus ignore"
bind F eval "hardstatus alwayslastline"
# split
bind j focus down
bind k focus up
bind t focus top
bind b focus bottom
.EE

and put in .screenrc* file only specificites, such as :

.B .screenrc.main

.EX
sessionname _main_
source $HOME/.screenrc
screen -t mutt mutt
screen -t news newsbeuter
.EE

or :

.B .screenrc.compil

.EX
sessionname compil
source $HOME/.screenrc
screen -t linux ssh linuxbox
screen -t sun   ssh sunbox
screen -t hpux  ssh hpbox
screen -t aix   ssh aixbox
screen -t bsd   ssh bsdbox
.EE

Note : the 
.B shell
line in .screenrc sample can be usefull to avoid creating a new window in screen with a shell value of '/usr/bin/screenie'.

.SH SESSION NAMES
As shown in the MULTIPLE SCREENRC section, you can set a particular name in your screenrc files using 
.B sessionname
setting of screen. When creating a new session with '[N|n]', if 
.B screenie
detect a sessinname in your .screenrc file, it won't ask for one.
If you don't specify a session name when asked, "_" will be used as a a default one.

.SH ABOUT
screenie was written by Marc O. Gloor <mgloor@fhzh.ch>
.SH SEE ALSO
screen(1)
